The Amiga Research OS (AROS, http://www.aros.org/) is an effort to 
implement an Open Source and portable operating system that is API 
compatible (and binary compatible on Amiga computers) with AmigaOS 
3.1. Originally, it was meant as a direct reimplementation, but 
Open Source projects being what they are there has also been 
improvements made over the existing AmigaOS in several areas. This 
has been quite sucessfull, and some parts of our code has been used 
in never versions of the official AmigaOS (versions 3.5 and 3.9).

The relation between us and Amiga, Inc. (the company that owns the 
original AmigaOS) are quite friendly, so we are not concerned that 
they will suddenly sue us or something like that. We do however 
make sure that we don't infringe on any patens. Also, the project 
(ie. the CVS and web server) is located in Germany, where it is 
perfectly legal to reimplement and reverse engineer to gain 
interoperability.  

The project is currently 7 years old and can be regarded as quite 
mature. As of writing, 76.83% of the AmigaOS API has been 
implemented, and a lot of third party sources ported. The OS is not 
fully usable totally standalone yet (well, it depends on what you 
want to do I guess), but we're getting quite close... 

There are two different 'flavors' of AROS; one that runs hosted on 
top of some other OS (Linux/i386, Linux/m68k, FreeBSD/i386, 
NetBSD/i386) and the other that runs natively on 'bare hardware' 
(currenlty, the i386 native port is most complete, but there are 
work being done on ports to palm and amiga hardware).

The SourceForge resources we intend to use are primarily for 
distributing snapshots and releases and mirroring of the web server 
content. We already have mailing lists and CVS set up on a server 
using bandwidth donated by a private company (Trustec, 
http://www.trustec.de/). We have until recently also had an FTP server
for the distribution there, but unfortunately (well, kind of :-)) the 
project has become to popular and generates too much traffic for them, 
so they asked us to reduce it. At this time we were generating 10 
GB/month of traffic, but hopefully this will not be an problem for 
SourceForge. In the future we might want to use more of SourceForge's
services, for example auxillary mailing lists for specific topics or 
the excellent Compile Farm. 

[Note: The project's coordinator and founder is Aaron Digulla (he has 
contacted SourceForge sometime earlier), but since he seems to be very 
busy at the moment, I have taken this liberty of contacing SourceForget 
myself. I'm sure he doesn't mind. :-)]
