
This is an official statement about the current status of the AROS
project.

As of writing, the AROS source code is about 29MB and about 56% of all
functions are implemented (13% are in work).

Currently, we are working hard on finishing graphics, layers and intuition
based on our new HIDD system. The HIDD system will allow us to put any kind
of hardware below AROS with only very little effort for people who
want/need/have to write a driver for a new piece of hardware. This work is
mostly done by Nils Henrik Lorentzen and Stefan Berger. The main goal is to
have a version of AROS which can open a screen, create windows on it and
let the use manipulate them. Currently, X11 is used to create the windows
and X11 also allows to manipulate them. The time-frame for this is May.

Michael Schulz has committed very promising code which can be compiled,
saved on a floppy and then be used to boot a small part of AROS on a bare
IBM compatible PC. When the new graphics system is ready, writing a VGA
driver should take a day (if not less) and AROS should be able to open a
workbench screen and windows on it. No workbench yet, though :-) AROS does
already boot but it doesn't do much, yet.

The next step would be to finish the console.device (half of it is already
finished) and put the input.device on top of the HIDD system. This should
integrate X11 (or whatever is below AROS) nicely into the AROS system
allowing to open a shell on an AROS screen. This will be done by Nils and
Johan Alfredsson, who is also working on the Commodities. This should take
about one month.

When the HIDDs for PC hardware are finished (mostly done by Michael
Schulz), it should be possible to boot AROS from a diskette and use a shell
to enter some commands. An FFS file system also seems at the brink of
completion, so creating an Amiga partition and installing it on the hard
disk will then soon be possible. No time frame has been set for all this,
yet. It mainly depends on how much (correct) information books about PC
hardware contain, how the code for Linux looks like and such.

Branko Collin is meanwhile working on improving the documentation (the
web pages are not exactly ... "sexy" :-), fixing the many typos and writing
documentation about how to write documentation.

Kars de Jong is working on the Linux/m68k port of AROS which allows to run
binary Amiga software. Some simple programs already work. When not working
on Layers, Stefan Berger tries to compile programs from Fish disks and
AmiNET work on AROS.

Bernhard Fastenrath and Aaron Digulla work on merging AROS with UAE which
should allow to make UAE faster and run native Amiga programs in an
emulator when AROS is able to run standalone (that is, without the help of
Linux). We will investigate the necessary steps and do tests during March.
At the end of the month, the next step will be decided.

Przemyslaw Szczygielski and Claus Herrmann are looking at PPC support. The
former for a port to LinuxPPC and the latter for making Exec on the Amiga
work on PPC (thus using the power of the PPC to run Amiga software on an
Amiga). Przemo hopes for some results in May and I must convince Claus to
merge his code with ours :-)

What the future might bring, who knows. The main goals right now are making
AROS work as a standalone system which can boot from a hard disk, writing
some drivers for the HIDD system so we can see if everything really fits to
where it belongs, rewrite the most complex part of the AmigaOS: Intuition,
Graphics and Layers.

The future will hopefully see a commercial version of AROS (so that we can
pay Amiga Inc. some money so they keep calm), a free version of AROS (just
like Linux: free without support or commercial with support), many more
HIDDs, a port of AROS to PPC.

But that doesn't mean that you can sit back, relax and watch our progress
(which is now updated daily on http://www.aros.org/progress.gif). We need
you !

Currently, more and more parts of AROS are being finished and we need some
real-world code to test AROS. What code would that be ? Here are the
criteria:

- It must only use pure AmigaOS calls (no MUI or such)
- No hardware banging or calls to things like MrgCop(), CWait() or
the like (usually functions which directly relate to some Amiga
hardware specific feature). Most Blitter-Functions are ok, however.
- NO ASSEMBLER CODE !
- It should compile with recent versions of SAS/C, gcc, StormC or another
ANSI-C compiler.
- They should be not too big (don't send in 1.5MB of source code, yet).

If you happen to have such a gem, then send it to:

    aros-code@aros.fh-konstanz.de

Please make *absolutely clear* if you mind if your code is published with
the source code of AROS or not. We promise that we won't touch any
copyright notices (except for adding them if they are missing, so you get
your credit). It's just that you might not want that the code is revealed
for any reason which would be ok for us. We just need to know :-)
