Article 179 of comp.sources.amiga:
Path: !asuvax!ncar!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!news.larc.nasa.gov!amiga-request
From: amiga-request@ab20.larc.nasa.gov (Amiga Sources/Binaries Moderator)
Newsgroups: comp.sources.amiga
Subject: v91i143: SimpleRexx - ARexx support made simple, Part01/01
Message-ID: <comp.sources.amiga.v91i143@ab20.larc.nasa.gov>
Date: 30 Jul 91 00:48:25 GMT
Reply-To: mks@cbmvax.uucp (Michael Sinz)
Lines: 1357
Approved: tadguy@uunet.UU.NET (Tad Guy)
X-Mail-Submissions-To: amiga@uunet.uu.net
X-Post-Discussions-To: comp.sys.amiga.misc

Submitted-by: mks@cbmvax.uucp (Michael Sinz)
Posting-number: Volume 91, Issue 143
Archive-name: rexx/simplerexx/part01

[ includes uuencoded executable  ...tad ]

     ARexx,  ARexx,  ARexx.    2.0  has  ARexx.   So, why and how do I
     support ARexx?

     The "Why?" has been answered elsewhere and that is not  what this
     article is  about.   Let it suffice that you should support ARexx
     within your application.  It  is  a  standard  that  Commodore is
     pushing and  we hope  that all  new applications  will have ARexx
     support.

     As to the "How?",  that  is  what  this  article  is  about.   We
     understand that  your existing software may not currently support
     ARexx and that some of you may never even have looked at  what is
     needed to  support ARexx.   New applications can be designed with
     ARexx support in mind  and, with  the advent  of the  AppShell by
     David Junod,  the work  involved to support ARexx is nothing more
     than  what  is  needed  to  support   the  features   within  you
     application.    However,  existing  code  may  not  move into the
     AppShell to  easily and  you may  wish to  do a  minor upgrade to
     your application to support ARexx.

     SimpleRexx is  a set  of routines that handle the low-level ARexx
     work for you in such a way as to have your application  work with
     or without ARexx on the target system.  The goal of SimpleRexx is
     to make adding at least the minimum level of ARexx  support to an
     application a trivial task.

-- 
Mail submissions (sources or binaries) to <amiga@uunet.uu.net>.
Mail comments to the moderator at <amiga-request@uunet.uu.net>.
Post requests for sources, and general discussion to comp.sys.amiga.misc.

