Resources
---------

To cross-compile AROS for Palm devices you need an m68k-palmos-coff cross
compiler and some additional tools. Luckily you do not have to create them
yourself but can download a complete package from the following site:

ftp://ryeham.ee.ryerson.ca/pub/PalmOS/m68k-palmos-coff.tools-990108-linux-x86-glibc.tar.gz

The size is ~4.9MB and *should* contain everything you need to develop
PalmOS applications (if you really want to). You should extract it into '/'.
This should get you going for the beginning but this compiler has a couple
of disadvantages and sooner or later we will have to switch to a regular
m68k-linux elf (cross) compiler that allows us to build all of AROS. You 
can get that one precompiled from 

ftp://ftp.fu-berlin.de/unix/linux/mirrors/tsx-11.mit.edu/680x0/tools/i486

The size of that one is ~7.4MB and *should* also contains all the tools 
you will ever need for cross compilation. If you cannot access this ftp 
server for some reason then search for "cross-m68k-linux-*" on dogpile.com
as an ftp search.
You should extract this file into '/'.


Also since you probably want to extend AROS for Palm a little you might
want to download the dragonball documentation from the Motorola website.
The documentation tells you (almost) everything you need to know about the
Palm HW and its additional memory mapped registers.

http://www.motorola.com

Search for "dragonball" and then go to "documentation". Sigh, the size of
that thing is also >5MB.



Compilation (only the m68k-palmos-coff...) package from above is currently needed.
-----------

Cross compiling AROS is not supported by the configuration, yet, and
therefore compiling AROS for Palm is little messy, but it works anyway.
Here is what you should do. Start with a clean tree by typing the following
in the AROS/ directory
	mmake .clean ; rm -rf bin

After that you need to create the main Makefile like you would do to compile
AROS for Linux i386:
	./configure

Also you need to build the tools first before doing anything else:
	make tools

Now go into config/palm-native
	cd config/palm-native

and start compiling the source tree with the given script 'compile'. This
will compile all linklibs, exec and maybe a couple of other libraries:
	./compile.coff

To upload it onto a palm device do the following:
	cd boot ; make clean ; make send

You can also upload it to xcopilot by using the target 'emu' instead fo
'send' in the command line above.


Current Status
--------------

The current status is that only exec multitasking works. One task draws a 
vertical and a horizontal line onto the screen and moves them downwards
and rightwards respectively. The idle task (!) scrolls the visible area
pixel by pixel. To do so its priority is raised from -128 to 0 and
task switching is 'manually' enabled in the dispatcher. 
Tasks are currently preempted at a rate of 1Hz.


Roadmap
-------
Here is my suggestion of a roadmap on how we could get AROS running on 
Palm devices as fast as possible:

- Replace the m68k-palmos-coff-gcc compiler with a m68k-linux elf compiler.
  This will allow us to build larger executables than 32kb but downloading
  AROS onto the Palm device (or emulator) will not be as easy anymore since
  the Palm does not like the elf format.

- Write one program for PalmOS that checks the memory layout and sends its
  findings to an AROS or Linux program. The program on AROS then loads 
  the m68k elf executable and relocates (!) it and then sends the chunks 
  to the Palm device. (Watch out where the supervisor stack pointer is 
  located such that that program does not overwrite the stack) 
  [I think the memory layout can be found out by reading some of the 
   systen registers 0xfffff???]

- Until now no changes should have been made to the source tree, unless
  it could have been tested with the native Palm OS version of exec as
  we have it right now.

- Introduce an irq hidd. The task switching handler should use the irq
  hidd.

- Try to write the serial hidd for debugging output over serial line.

- add all necessary libraries to the executable. This should not be
  very difficult but will increase the upload time considerably.

- Write a graphics hidd. Should be real simple to do!! Check the dragon ball 
  documentation for what the LCD registers offer.


Knowledge (more or less)
---------

- You will (currently) need a m68k cross compiler for palmos. You should
  be able to find it on the aros ftp server. Unfortunately this compiler
  will only allow to generate code sizes of up to 32kb and that only
  allows exec to fit in and not much of anything else.

- The next step will be to generate aros with a m68k elf cross compiler
  and write a loader program for PalmOS that will load AROS for Palm onto
  the Palm device. The relocation of the executable should then be done
  on the host (AROS or Linux) before uploading it to the Palm device.

- Debugging has become quite difficult since I switched
  execution to user mode. Can only debug once in supervisor mode
  (interrupts, traps)

- Something bad happens when string.h is included. All memset are 
  mapped to MemSet which takes a different order of parameters and
  thus causes crashes. Therefore __string_h was defined to prevent
  including that PalmOS include file which does the remapping. 
  (see config file for Palm)

- Do not try to build geninc. It will not create the right offsets for the 
  crosscompilation but for i386 instead! I wrote a c file instead with
  minimal functions.

- Fix Supervisor, Stackswap, ColdReboot (missing offsets in machine.i)

- Currently all interrupts are disabled in the dispatcher (my_dispatcher)
  and only RTC is enabled at the end. 

- For some reason jmp <label> seems to generate wrong code. It does not
  jump to the address I want it to. Used 'bra' instead and that seems
  to do the trick. Absolute addresses expressed through labels seem to be
  a general problem with that compiler. Best is to use only relative
  addresses with the coff type of compiler.
 
- Had to replace the addintserver file in rom/exec with a file that
  has no references to custom chip hw. Otherwise this caused crashes due
  to access to addresses that do not exist. It seems the #defines are
  defined in the Palm case.

- The speed of the task switches depends on which flag is set in the RTC
  register RTCISR (0xfffffb0e). Change it accordingly in exec/ints.S
  and inithw.c, disable.c & enable.c .
  (For nothing in the world I could get better task switching than @ 1Hz.)

- Try to get rid of all 'int's. They are 2 bytes long with the native
  palm compiler. Once we move to the real m68k elf compiler this
  will not be a problem anymore. So we might not want to do it.

- GCC optimization option -O3 seems to generate a little larger executable 
  than -O2.

- Hardware: How do you get the coordinates from the touch screen?
  How do you get notifications about pressed buttons?

- Defined __DONT_USE_DEBUGMEM__ to make exec run on Palm
  device. It is defined in the config file for Palm copyied to 
  AROS/config/.

- Memory allocated by PlamOS before entering AROS needs to be aligned!
  See boot/exec.c code!

- The memory allocation function currently in use does not even allow 
  allocation of 0x10000 bytes. It simply returns NULL then.



Uploading elf code to the Palm
------------------------------

- There must not be any symobols defines as common ('C') when the executable 
  is examined with 'nm'. Use '-dp' when linking to allocate space for such
  kind of symbols in the .bss section. 

- You MUST pass -Wa,-mc68000 as argument to gcc or -mc68000 to as
  (assembler) because otherwise you might get 68020 instructions like
  bsr.l <label> which do not exist on an mc68000.



--
Palm is a registered trademark of Palm Inc.
